---
layout: post
title: "Tutorial 2: Text Output"
date: 2019-03-20
description: "Scan-line Style Text Output in JS, CSS, and HTML"
---

This is the second developemnt diary post for command-ui. The first post covered how to make the text display appear as an old school CRT terminal. This post covers another key piece of the look and feel, how new text is rendered to the UI. 

I wanted to make sure that the overall feel was that of an old terminal. To do this, as new text is rendered to the screen, it is not just displayed immediately in the window, but is written line by line progrssively.

To accomplish this I started with some basic javascript. 

<script src="https://gist.github.com/benjamib/ac64930d2e90f08e3fdbf067cb673a7d.js"></script>

The function typeWriter takes the string of textto be displayed on the screen as well as an optional parameter to indicate the spped that the text is displayed. The speed of the text is the number of characters to write at each time. The default is set to 5. The higher this number, the quicker the text is displayed. If speed is set to 1, it will emulate a typewriter writing a single character at a time. 

The function type is what actually displays the text on the screen.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/benjamib/9336c76d8f5ca71633757efc99e73914.js"></script>

type loops over the text string to output to the screen. The text is looped over in chunks defined by speed. The variable i keeps the current position into the text string as we loop successively. The text is added to the HTML element demo, that is a textarea defined in the HTML. 

After each iteration of the loop, type is called recursively via setTimeout, with a timeout of 1. 

That's it! As mentioned above, the effect is controlled by the speed parameter to typeWriter and can be tweaked as desired.
